Revised readme (#9)
sensu/sensu-remediation-handler: README.md

# Sensu Remediation Handler

[![Bonsai Asset Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/Bonsai-Download%20Me-brightgreen.svg?colorB=89C967&logo=sensu)](https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-remediation-handler) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.com/sensu/sensu-remediation-handler.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.com/sensu/sensu-remediation-handler)

- [Overview](#overview)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)
  - [Annotations](#annotations)

>     - [Annotation specification](#annotation-specification)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Annotation Specification](#annotation-specification)
```

>     - [Remediation action specification](#remediation-action-specification)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - [Remediation Action Specification](#remediation-action-specification)
```

- [Setup](#setup)

> - [Usage Example](#usage-example)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Examples](#examples)
```

>   - [Example "Unscheduled" Check (Remediation Action)](#example--unscheduled--check--remediation-action-)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - [Example "Unscheduled" Check (Remediation Action)](#example-unscheduled-check-remediation-action)
```

  - [Example Check Definition and Remediation Request Configuration](#example-check-definition-and-remediation-request-configuration)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)

## Overview

> The Sensu Remediation Handler is a [Sensu Go event handler][handler]

Reviewer: Is there a reason to use words for relative links rather than numbers? In the docs I think it's mainly numbers, but every once in a while there will be a word instead.

Author: The only advantage I see for words over numbers is that I often feel like i need to reorder numbers when adding new links above existing links. This is tedious but usually not necessary.

I think consistency matters most. The style guide for sensu-docs doesn't dictate which link style to use, but maybe it should.

Reviewer: I agree, the style guide should cover this. I like numbers b/c I think it looks more organized and it doesn't require you to spend time deciding on a word/phrase to use. But I also feel compelled to keep them in order. Maybe we could standardize with "use numbers; no need to cite them in order."

Reviewer: https://github.com/sensu/sensu-docs/wiki/Sensu-docs-style-guide#links

> which enables you to build self-healing workflows in Sensu. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that enables you to build self-healing workflows in Sensu. 
```

> The Sensu Remediation Handler &ndash; and other similar "self healing"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sensu Remediation Handler &ndash; and other similar self-healing
```

workflows in Sensu &ndash; combine a few Sensu features:

> - An "unscheduled check" configuration (i.e. a Sensu Check with the `"publish":

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An "unscheduled check" configuration (i.e. a Sensu check with the `"publish":
```

Reviewer: Just something I noticed: the other two bullet points end with a "which provides..." phrase that explains the benefit of the listed feature. Is it possible to describe the benefit of the unscheduled check configuration similarly (i.e. in a brief phrase of 5 to 10 words)?

  false` attribute set).

> - The Sensu Agent's built-in entity subscriptions (e.g. `entity:web-server-01`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Sensu agent's built-in entity subscriptions (e.g. `entity:web-server-01`),
```

  which make it possible to target a single agent with a check execution
  request.

> - The Sensu Checks API `POST /checks/:check/execute` endpoint, which provides

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The Sensu Checks API `POST /checks/:check/execute` endpoint, which allows
```

>   the ability to make ad hoc check requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  you to make ad hoc check requests.
```

>   the ability to make ad hoc check requests.

Author: ```suggestion
 issuing ad hoc check requests.
```

>  issuing ad hoc check requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 you to issue ad hoc check requests.
```

Reviewer: I think "issuing" doesn't make it clear who/what is doing the issuing. But maybe the user isn't either?

Author: In the case of using this handler, the handler is using this API to issue check requests based on defined remediation actions.

>  issuing ad hoc check requests.

Author: ```suggestion
 this handler to issue ad hoc check requests.
```

## Configuration

### Environment Variables

> The Sensu Remediation Handler does not honor any command line flags. Instead, environment variables are required, either in the handler definition or in the Sensu backend service environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sensu Remediation Handler does not honor any command line flags. Instead, it requires environment variables, either in the handler definition or in the Sensu backend service environment.
```

SENSU_API_URL        | |
---------------------|-------------------------------

> description          | URL for Sensu backend, including scheme, hostname or IP address and port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description          | URL for Sensu backend, including scheme, hostname or IP address, and port.
```

required             | false
type                 | String
default              | http://127.0.0.1:8080
example              | `SENSU_API_URL=http://sensu.example.com:8080`

SENSU_USER           | |
---------------------|-------------------------------
description          | Username for the Sensu API.
required             | true
type                 | String
example              | `SENSU_USER=remediation-handler`

SENSU_PASS           | |
---------------------|-------------------------------
description          | Password for the Sensu API.
required             | true
type                 | String
example              | `SENSU_PASS=setecastronomy`

SENSU_API_CERT_FILE  | |
---------------------|-------------------------------

> description          | Filesystem path to a CA certificate used to validate https Sensu API connections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description          | Filesystem path to certificate authority (CA) certificate used to validate https Sensu API connections.
```

required             | false
type                 | String
example              | `SENSU_API_CERT_FILE=/etc/sensu/cacert.pem`

### Annotations

> Whereas environment variables provide connection details for the Sensu API, the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation is used to provide the configuration defining remediation activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although environment variables provide connection details for the Sensu API, you'll use the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation provide the configuration that defines remediation activities.
```

> #### Annotation specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Annotation Specification
```

> Although environment variables provide connection details for the Sensu API, you'll use the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation provide the configuration that defines remediation activities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Although environment variables provide connection details for the Sensu API, you'll use the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation to provide the configuration that defines remediation activities.
```

> This handler uses the string value of the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation to determine which remediation actions, if any, should be scheduled for a given event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Sensu Remediation Handler uses the string value of the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation to determine which remediation actions, if any, should be scheduled for a given event.
```

> When present, the value of the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation must be a array of objects containing key/value pairs. Each object element in the array must conform to the Remediation action specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When present, the value of the `io.sensu.remediation.config.actions` check annotation must be a array of objects containing key/value pairs. Each object element in the array must conform to the remediation action specification.
```

> #### Remediation action specification

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Remediation Action Specification
```

description   | |
--------------|------------------------------------------------------------
description   | A human-readable representation of the remediation action.
required      | false
type          | String
example       | `"description": "restart failed ntpd service"`

request       | |
--------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------
description   | The name of the check to be scheduled by the remediation action.
required      | true
type          | String
example       | `"request": "remediate-ntpd-service"`

occurrences   | |
--------------|-------------------------------
description   | A list of occurrence counts at which the remediation action is triggered.
required      | true
type          | Array of integers
example       | `"occurrences": [4,14,42]`

severities    | |
--------------|-------------------------------

> description   | A list of [check status severities][check-result-specification] which are allowed for the remediation action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description   | A list of [check status severities][check-result-specification] that are allowed for the remediation action.
```

required      | true
type          | Array of integers
example       | `"severities": [1]`

subscriptions | |
--------------|-------------------------------
description   | A list of agent subscriptions for targeting remediation actions.
required      | true
type          | Array of strings
example       | `"subscriptions": ["ntpd"]`

## Setup

> 1. Create a dedicated Sensu user & role for the remediation handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a dedicated Sensu user and role for the remediation handler.
```

   ```shell
   sensuctl role create remediation-handler --namespace=default --verb=create,update --resource checks
   sensuctl role-binding create remediation-handler --role=remediation-handler --user=remediation-handler
   sensuctl user create remediation-handler --password REPLACEME
   ```

> 2. Register the remediation handler asset

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Register the remediation handler asset.
```

   ```shell
   sensuctl asset add sensu/sensu-remediation-handler
   ```

> 3. Configure the handler

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Configure the remediation handler.
```

   ```yaml
   ---
   type: Handler
   api_version: core/v2
   metadata:
     name: remediation
     namespace: default
   spec:
     type: pipe
     command: sensu-remediation-handler
     timeout: 10
     runtime_assets:
     - sensu-remediation-handler
     env_vars:
     - "SENSU_API_URL=http://127.0.0.1:8080"
     - "SENSU_API_CERT_FILE="
     - "SENSU_API_USER=remediation-handler"
     - "SENSU_API_PASS=supersecret"
   ```

   Save this definition to a file named `sensu-remediation-handler.yaml` and
   run:

   ```shell
   sensuctl create -f sensu-remediation-handler.yaml
   ```

> ## Usage Example

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Examples
```

spec:
  command: sudo systemctl start nginx
  publish: false

>   interval: 10 # interval is not used, but required

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  interval: 10 # interval is required but not used
```

  - nginx
```

## Acknowledgements

> This handler implements a pattern first implemented in [Nick Stielau's "Sensu Remediator"][remediator] (circa 2012). Thanks Nick!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This handler implements a pattern first implemented in [Nick Stielau's Sensu Remediator][remediator] circa 2012. Thanks, Nick!
```
